Color Module - First Draft (#147)
design-tokens/community-group: technical-reports/color/token-naming.md

### Base

Base tokens are the lowest level tokens and typically consist of a name and [hexadecimal](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-color-4/#hex-notation) value pair.

<aside class="example">

```scss
$color-green-500: #abcabc;
$color-shadow-translucent: #00000088;
```

</aside>

### Alias

A design token’s value can be a _reference_ to another token. The same value can have multiple names or aliases.

<aside class="example">

```scss
$color-palette-black: #000000;
$color-text-base: $color-palette-black;
```

</aside>

### Component

Component-specific tokens provide design decisions at the component level and improve the separation of concerns in your token architecture.

<aside class="example">

```scss
$color-button-primary: $color-brand-primary;
$color-banner-background: $color-palette-black;
```

</aside>

## Naming strategies

There are many naming options when it comes to design tokens, especially color type tokens. We’ve identified two that seem to be most commonly implemented, **descriptive and numerical**.

### Base Tokens

For **Base tokens**, here’s how they may be represented in each version:

#### Descriptive

> Descriptive names can be more emotional and human-friendly because they often relate to tangible things that people interact with, like grass or watermelons.

Reviewer: I would note that using names like "grass" or "canary" may not make sense to someone whose first language is not English.  For projects that require engagement from designers and developers across languages this may not be a suitable choice.

Reviewer 2: Great point, thanks @cgatian!

<aside class="example">

```scss
$color-button-primary: $color-brand-primary;
$color-banner-background: $color-palette-black;
```

</aside>

## Naming strategies

There are many naming options when it comes to design tokens, especially color type tokens. We’ve identified two that seem to be most commonly implemented, **descriptive and numerical**.

### Base Tokens

For **Base tokens**, here’s how they may be represented in each version:

#### Descriptive

Descriptive names can be more emotional and human-friendly because they often relate to tangible things that people interact with, like grass or watermelon.

| Pros                                                                                                   | Cons                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Easier for some people to identify with, could be used to distinguish Brand colors from product colors | Harder to determine the scale of colors (i.e., which ones are lighter vs. darker, and how they pair well together)            |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Easier for some people to identify with, could be used to distinguish brand colors from product colors | Harder to determine the scale of colors (for example: which ones are lighter vs. darker? How well do they pair together?)            |
```

| If using bounded scales, the token name can help indicate something about the underlying value                                                                       |                                                           |

### Alias Tokens

For **Alias Tokens**, we recommend grouping tokens with similar intentions by prioritizing the category + property within the name. For example, all background color Alias tokens would likely start with `$color-background-XXX`.

We recommend avoiding abbreviations. For example, use “background” instead of “bg”, to help with clarity.

Here’s how alias tokens may be represented:

<aside class="example">

```scss
$color-background-error: $color-red-600;
$color-background-success: $color-green-400;
$color-text-base: $color-palette-black; // Token with variant
$color-text-error-hover: $color-red-700; // Token with variant and state
```

</aside>

Color alias tokens could also be grouped by concept, like so:

<aside class="example">

```scss
// These can be used for background, border, or text colors
$color-feedback-error: $color-red-600;
$color-feedback-success: $color-green-400;
```

</aside>

### Component Tokens

> Component specific names should start with the component that they support, and be located close to the component code. They commonly refer to alias tokens under the hood, and can be helpful when trying to use consistent styles across components while still maintaining separation of concerns.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Component-specific names should start with the component they support and be located close to the component code. They commonly refer to alias tokens and can be helpful when trying to use consistent styles across components while still maintaining separation of concerns.
```

I removed "under the hood", it's an idiom that international readers may not know the meaning of.

      <ThemeContext.Provider value={theme}>
        <div className={cx(subbrand, theme)} ref={forwardedRef}>
          {children}
        </div>
      </ThemeContext.Provider>
    </SubbrandContext.Provider>
  );
});

const useThemeContext = () => useContext(ThemeContext);
const useSubbrandContext = () => useContext(SubbrandContext);

export default Theme;
export { useThemeContext, useSubbrandContext };
```

</aside>

Portal.js

<aside class="example">

```jsx
import Theme, {
  useThemeContext,
  useSubbrandContext,
} from '@design-system/components/Theme';

const Portal = ({ children, ...props }) => {
  const theme = useThemeContext();
  const subbrand = useSubbrandContext();

  return (

        <Theme theme={theme} subbrand={cx(interopContext, subbrand)}>
          {children}
        </Theme>
    </PortalStackContext.Provider>
  );
};

export default Portal;

```

</aside>

Consumer

<aside class="example">

```less
// subbrand.less

.valentinesDay {
  --color-interactive: #be0000;
  --color-text-base: #313131;

  .dark-mode & {
    --color-interactive: #470000;
    --color-text-base: #cdbfbf;
  }
}
```

</aside>

<aside class="example">

```jsx

> import {Theme} from "@design-system"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import {Theme} from "@design-system/components/Theme";
```

> # Token naming

Reviewer 4: - [ ] Remove this document? Since we’re updating the format itself, and not providing recommendations (this starts to conflict with other upcoming proposals like modes), we could always split out ideas here into separate proposals or separate conversations to be discussed apart from the color changes.

## Categorization

There are 3 main categories of design tokens that we will continue to reference in this specification.

### Base

> Base tokens are the lowest level tokens and typically consist of a name and [hexadecimal](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-color-4/#hex-notation) value pair.

Reviewer 5: If the naming convention for color tokens are in the same format as the others (most likely?), why don't we reference a global naming convention here?

$color-feedback-success: $color-green-400;
```

</aside>

### Component Tokens

Component-specific names should start with the component they support and be located close to the component code. They commonly refer to alias tokens and can be helpful when trying to use consistent styles across components while still maintaining separation of concerns.

<aside class="example">

```scss
$badge-color-background-error: $color-background-error or $color-feedback-error;
$badge-color-background-success: $color-background-success;
$badge-color-text-error: $color-text-error or $color-feedback-error;
```

</aside>

### Supporting color modes

Design tokens can be matched with multiple values to support various color modes, like a light mode and dark mode, as an example. This can be implemented in multiple ways, as demonstrated below.

#### Single declaration

In this case, the **$color-text-default** token is defined once, and “value” is considered the default for light mode, and the “darkValue” is used in dark mode.

<aside class="example">

```json
// tokens/color/alias.json
{
  "color": {
    "$type": "color",
    "text": {
      "default": {
        "$description": "Default text color",

>         "$value": {

Reviewer 6: @adekunleoduye is there any reason for single declarations we can't do:

```
...
"$value": "#111111"
...
```

The additional object with a single key of `"$hex"` seems unnecessary.

Reviewer 3: My understanding was that this notation was still supported?
